Great Seal of UtahDSDHH
Utah Interpreter Program
The State of Utah Certifying & Regulating Body 
for American Sign Language Interpreters
Home
Find an Interpreter
Laws & Policies
File a Complaint
Certification Board
Exams
Practitioners
Interpreter Login
Continuing Education Hours Approval for Interpreters
Last Name:
Stringham
First Name:
Doug
Middle Initial:
Your middle initial
Phone:
8017356560
Email Address:
dstringham@gmail.com
Activity Name:
ASL 3350: Consecutive Interpreting
Activity Date(s):
Utah Valley University course offering: Fall 2016 Semester (23/Aug–9/Dec 2016)
Presenter:
Doug Stringham
Number of CEHs being requested:
TBD (need counsel from Mitch Jensen on how to determine a final number)
Activity Description:This is a full-semester class introducing students to consecutive sign language interpreting theory and practice between Deaf and nondeaf people. There are 29 class periods, T/Th (3 hrs instruction time/week). The schedule can be found at http://intrpr.github.io/3350/schedule.html, but introduces and leads students through concepts of giving public presentations, learning how to appropriate talk about and evaluate interpreting work, an introduction to contemporary interpreting approaches, L1 language development, miscue recognition, listening and attending, organization and analysis, managing memory issues, reformulation of source message into target message, and self-monitoring skills.

This is a full-semester class introducing students to consecutive sign language interpreting theory and practice between Deaf and nondeaf people. There are 29 class periods, T/Th (3 hrs instruction time/week). The schedule can be found at http://intrpr.github.io/3350/schedule.html, but introduces and leads students through concepts of giving public presentations, learning how to appropriate talk about and evaluate interpreting work, an introduction to contemporary interpreting approaches, L1 language development, miscue recognition, listening and attending, organization and analysis, managing memory issues, reformulation of source message into target message, and self-monitoring skills.
 
Why did you choose this activity?I think this is a beneficial hybrid of both personal enrichment and next-generation interpreter supply creation. I have never submitted this activity for CEH approval before but find it consistent with receiving CEH credit for previous professional development workshops I have taught before.

I think this is a beneficial hybrid of both personal enrichment and next-generation interpreter supply creation. I have never submitted this activity for CEH approval before but find it consistent with receiving CEH credit for previous professional development workshops I have taught before.
 
What are your specific goals? How will you accomplish these goals?My specific goals for students can be found at http://intrpr.github.io/3350 (student learning objectives), (http://intrpr.github.io/3350/syllabus.html (student and instructor expectations), and http://intrpr.github.io/3350/assignments.html (course learning and assignment goals). I will accomplish these objectives by adhering to these guidelines, encouraging students to create goal contracts with me that I review periodically with them, and providing several formative evaluation opportunities (formally: midterm, final, and school-designated and informally: biweekly 'check-ins' with students to see how the course is going for them).

My specific goals for students can be found at http://intrpr.github.io/3350 (student learning objectives), (http://intrpr.github.io/3350/syllabus.html (student and instructor expectations), and http://intrpr.github.io/3350/assignments.html (course learning and assignment goals). I will accomplish these objectives by adhering to these guidelines, encouraging students to create goal contracts with me that I review periodically with them, and providing several formative evaluation opportunities (formally: midterm, final, and school-designated and informally: biweekly 'check-ins' with students to see how the course is going for them).
 
How will you verify completion of these hours/What documentation will you submit to verify these hours?I can submit proof of grades submitted and/or end-of-semester student evaluations to demonstrate that I taught and completed requirements for the course.

I can submit proof of grades submitted and/or end-of-semester student evaluations to demonstrate that I taught and completed requirements for the course.
 
Submit
Staff Directory
Resources
